---
title: "Meeting 0x5 - The Curiously Recurring Pattern of Coupled Types - Distributed C++ Meetup"
date: 2018-10-25T22:20:09+02:00
---

A special meetup joined online with Core C++ and SwedenCpp user groups!! Featuring the The World’s First C++ Distributed presentation and more, don't miss it!

The space is courtesy of King!

The program for the evening:

### AGENDA

|               |              |
|---------------|--------------|
| 17:30  | Informal networking and mingling |
| 18:00  | Presenting the User Groups, Adi Shavit, Harald Achitz and Ólafur Waage |
| 18:20  | The Curiously Recurring Pattern of Coupled Types (1st distributed C++ talk), Adi Shavit and Björn Fahller   |
| 19:20  | break          |
| 19:30  | Lightening talks by all the groups, TBD          |

**Attention!**

For this conference at King (https://discover.king.com/) we need to
produce access cards for you. Therefore it is required that we have
your full name, meetup nicknames do not work.

If we do not have your name until Tuesday 23th of October (12:00) then
we can not produce an access card for you and you will not be able to
attend this meetup.

---

### The Curiously Recurring Pattern of Coupled Types
Why can pointers be subtracted but not added?

What do raw C pointers, STL iterators, std::chrono types, and 2D/3D geometric
primitives have in common?

In this talk we will present some curiously coupled data types that frequently
occur in your programs, together forming notions that you are already
intuitively familiar with. We will shine a light on the mathematical notion of
Affine Spaces, and how they guide stronger design. We will review the
properties of affine spaces and show how they improve program semantics,
stronger type safety and compile time enforcement of these semantics.

By showing motivational examples, we will introduce you to the mathematical
notion of affine spaces. The main focus will then be on how affine space types
and their well defined semantics shape expressive APIs.

We will give examples and guidelines for creating your own affine types.

#### Adi Shavit
Adi Shavit is an entrepreneur, speaker, independent consultant, experienced
software architect and a computer vision, image processing, and machine
learning expert with an emphasis on real-time applications. He specializes in
building cross-platform, high-performance software combined with high
production quality and maintainable code-bases. Adi is also the founder of the
Core C++ users group in Israel.

#### Björn Fahller
Björn wrote his first program in 1980. After completing his MSc in CS and
Engineering in 1994, programming has been the primary source of income, mostly
from writing embedded software for communications systems.

Occasionally Björn has been seen tinkering with unorthodox software
constructs, pondering "what can be done with this?" He lives in Stockholm

### Post

[Sean Parent talk mentioned](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iwJpxWHuZQY)